Studying Latin has allowed me to think about English in different ways. Latin’s existence as an inflected language has allowed me to expand my thinking regarding how language functions. Almost every single word in Latin is conjugated in one way or another: nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc. Although this makes Latin more difficult to learn as a new language, the theory behind it is very interesting: it is more sophisticated in my opinion. What can be said with one word in Latin sometimes takes three or four in the English language. 

The process of making and revising mistakes in my translation and composition assignments proved beneficial in my overall understanding of the language. Latin requires a lot of focus in order to ensure that each word is conjugated correctly to serve its correct purpose. Understanding the correct purpose of a word in Latin allowed me to compare how that same purpose is expressed in English. This helped me gain a greater understanding of English, because prior to this semester Spanish was the only foreign language I had studied. 

The opportunity to learn a second or third language greatly expands an individual’s capacity to think in many ways, especially at an early age. Latin is especially helpful because of its contrast to English as an inflected language. The CBL/practicum section of this course helped me understand the gap between students of low and high incomes and their accessibility to language studies. The ability to study a language at a young age sets a student up for future academic success because, as mentioned, working between different languages makes the brain think in different ways. I have doubts that the CBL sections will be permitted to take place in person in the spring semester, but I am sure that working with the younger students was an incredibly rewarding experience for those who partook last year, and will continue to be for those who will participate in the future. 

